# Solid Practitioners

First meeting - 2023-11-10

## Facilitator 
* Jeff Zucker - dubzed@gmail.com

## Scribe

* Timea

## Participants
* [Timea Turdean](https://timea.solidcommunity.net/)
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Ludwig](https://heyludwig.de) ludwigschubi1@gmail.com
* [Noel De Martin](https://noeldemartin.com)
* [michal](https://id.mrkvon.org) ([sleepy.bike](https://sleepy.bike))
* [Daniel Bakas](https://id.danielbakas.com)
    * Web: semantyk.com
    * Mail: daniel@semantyk.com
* [Ka Hung Lee] (lee.kahung414@gmail.com)
* [Tim Standen](timmstanden@gmail.com)
* Jesse W.
* Michiel de J.
* [Jared K.] krajewski.jared@gmail.com
* [mariha](https://social.coop/@mariha)
    * email: m.kozinska@gmail.com
    * project: [sleepy.bike](https://sleepy.bike)
* [Wilf] wilfred.pinfold@opencommons.org
* [Hugh] hugh@codeforpdx.org

## Origin of this group
* Portland and Flemish social benefit projects
* Possible future funding

## Introductions (please, optionally mention these)
* we took turn and shared name, country and project(s) we are working on
 

## What is the purpose of this group?
* Collected ideas:
** Noel: I want to see Solid used by real people, bring it from theoretical to practical.
** Dan: Technical: How do we use this? We want to understand it. How is this sustainable? How can we think about transferrin our data models/infrastructures? Bridge a gap betweeen what exists and how to achieve it. 
** Dan: Value: How will this provide value, bring us closer to our business goals?
** Dan: Localization: How to translate the vision of solid to organisations in different regions of the globe?
** Elf: Share experience around UX. Authorization, resource sharing, using mobile devices, diverse technology enablement.
** Tim: What are the best tools and methodologies to develop Solid Apps. Standards and tools to use for Solid, frameworks that are successfull (develope Solid ecosystem quickly). 
** Ka Hung: Better documentation, how devs can use then effectively to create powerful UIs. There is a diverse set of libs but not enough documentation. What is a good way to ease people into Solid, technically. (to help with this: https://rdfjs.vercel.app/)
** Jeff: find the gaps and needs and bring it back to the Developer's group.
** Dan: How to implement it globally? Maybe like a Lean startup way (start with a proof of concept, a prototype, MVP, ...) but for specific stakeholders. Who are our users, who is our audience? what are theirs needs and how we can fulfill them?
** Jeff: How do you do connections with a community (organisation)? In the future, a big task can be outreach, when we get resources.
** Noel: In principle, for the Solid Protocol, it is for everyone. But there is no Pod provider to make a business. The only good way solution is to also provide the Pod. This types of questions I want to see how people are solving. These are the things I would like to see discussed in this group.
** Elf: give visibility to success stories. Make them replicable. Once there is a way we should be able to replicate solutions for other organisations.
** Dan: right now it is about how do we extract value/knowledge from the data. For example: visualize, interact with the data, to explore it through Linked Data capabilities. The goal of the platforms (they are not looking to monetize it) they are trying to extarct knowledge.
** Wilf: How to handle security? (not necessarily Solid related) Distributed data application sharing knowledge to not reinvent solutions.


## What should be our group activities?
* Collected ideas:
** having a public presence for projects that are working already.
** Dog fooding (use what we create/built) and is related to solidifying Solid
** sharing on business model ideas
** sharing on the found gaps back to specs and other groups within Solid
** see what the other projects of people here are, architecture, and talk about solution - presentation and discussion style.
** Share experiences, for example on localization, translation eg. https://projectfluent.org/ and setting up public instance of https://github.com/mozilla/pontoon/
** location for best practices, and creationof best practices. One location to look at example, where they can look at the model and can build off them. (not having people branching off and doing their own thing every time).
** having ontologies associated with certain purposes. Helping us that we are not creating multiple ways for the same solution (of storing data in a Pod, Pods interacting with eachother).
** there is an overlap between translation and data modules through shapes, example is shape tree.
** handling of all the different RDF formats, N3, Json-LD and such - it is a concern for Solid Pod providers than Apps. Apps can use only using Turtle or JSON-LD no need to translate between syntaxes. In practice this could be impractical. -> this is a good example to go into a concrete practical problem and share solutions or knowledge. (there is a vivid conversation about it)
** section in the regular meetings to have specific problems we want to get to the bottom of and provide solution righ away, this could be later turned into searchable FAQ or Q&A. people should get value on the spot during the meeting (ahaa moments)
** structure our regular meetings - maybe like in SolidOS meeting - round table and Technical discussion.
** gitHub discussion or mailing list? - group present tends towards GitHub discussions.
** is there a way to formalize data structures? Client-to-Client specs is such a place for Contacts: https://github.com/solid/contacts
** try to set metrics, ways to measure, evaluate our progress in these meetings
** share what was done since last meetings
** come together and work on a common project and publish regular pieces of sharing knowledge of how to - recommandation guides or so.
** disemmination
** when sharing projects, have the opportunity to work on eachothers projects
** mechanism for sharing Solid Projects

ACTIONS:
* Jeff to cerate a PR with a summary from this meeting - everyone please review.
* Come with a description of projects and their visino for next time.
* Can the next meeting be recorded? - at each meeting facilitator to ask at the beginning of the meeting.

## What time/cadence meetings?
* every other week
* anyday but Wednesday
* between 15:00 and 20:00 UTC
* we are going to continue with everyother week meetings (Cadence).
* 17 UTC is a good time
* Day: Thursdays

ACTION: 
* Jeff to change meeting times on Thursday at 17:00 UTC, 9am PST, 18:00 CET. 
* Next meeting - 30th November 17:00 UTC, 9am PST, 18:00 CET

